# Robotic-Arm_2 class classifier
The ANT Neuro eego™ mylab 64 Channel system, with a sampling rate of 512 Hz, is used to record the operator's EEG signals. The impedance of each electrode is maintained below 30 Ω. The recordings are made in the presence of a 5G network and a noisy environment. During training, the operator imagines the desired action: movement (confirmation) or no movement (negation) when the gaze triggers the query. Concurrently, the operator labels the recognized decision as correctly or incorrectly classified, which is essential for training the CNN. A transparent screen allows the operator to see the robot arm and its movements. A total of 220 samples are recorded and classified for both the movement and no-movement conditions. EEG signals are registered in time windows of 4 s 2 s before and 2 s after triggering the gaze-induced query for moving the robot arm. Once the EEG signals are registered, pre-processing must be performed to improve the quality of the signal. The characteristic waveforms of the EEG signal are in four frequency bands, namely delta (1–4 Hz), theta (4–8 Hz), alpha (8–13 Hz), and beta (13–30 Hz). Therefore, the acquired EEG signal is filtered between 1 and 45 Hz to remove the unwanted high frequency components of the signal and increase the signal to noise ratio. The four second window is reduced to 2 s window, one second before and one second after showing the question (after the time the participant made his decision). The data is also decimated by two to smooth the signal and reduce the data vector. Using PCA, 10 features are extracted from each channel which originally, after filtering and decimation, had 512 samples. Using PCA existing features are transformed into a lower-dimensional space which is useful for feature reduction in order to avoid the redundancy due to high-dimensional data. 396 samples of whole recorded data (198 Yes and 198 No) are divided into 70% samples for training and 30% samples for validation. CNN model is used for classification because CNN needs minimal pre-processing and feature-extraction. Ideally CNN itself should identify
For furthur details please refer to the published article: 
### Evaluation of 5G-capable framework for highly mobile, scalable human-machine interfaces in cyber-physical production systems, https://doi.org/10.1016/j.jmsy.2022.08.009
